hi this is Keith from pharmacy tech
study comm and in this video I'd like to
talk about this question from the
Facebook page and it asks you have been
asked to divide five liters of a
suspension into an equal number of ten
milliliter and 15 milliliter unit-dose
dispensing cups how many 10 milliliter
dispensing cups will be made and then
there's four available answers so let's
talk about this over here on the
whiteboard and there's a few different
ways to work this out to or with algebra
and then one the one that I recommend
since it's a test question and you're
under a time restraint deadline is the
first thing I would do is look at the
answers and do a little trial and error
and so let's go ahead and put down our
factors we want equal parts of ten
milliliter and 15 milliliter dispensing
cups and we want those equal parts added
together to equal five thousand
milliliter so let's go ahead and
substitute in answer a so we have ten
times 200 plus 15 times 200 those are
equal parts 200 plus or 200 is equal to
200 and let's see if that equals 5,000
all right so we've got 10 times 200 is
2,000 plus 15 times 200 is 3000 so
indeed it does add up to 5,000 so just
using trial and error I just figured out
that a is the correct answer and if you
look at the other answers anything
higher than 200 is going to be way more
than 5,000 milliliters when you multiply
it to these size dispensing cups so
that's one way to do it now if that's
not working out for you for some reason
another way to do it is just a simple
algebra equation and so let's say we've
got our 10 milliliter dispensing cups
and our 15 milliliter dispensing cups
and we need to know what equal parts of
each are going to equal five thousand
milliliters and since they're equal we
can use X for both now if they were not
equal parts if this was two thirds and
this was one third for instance we would
use x and y and there's a whole other
way to do that called system of
equations that where you could figure
that out but that's unnecessary
in this problem so what we've got here
is 10 x + 15 x equals 5,000
so then add those together we get 25 x
equals 5000 and remember on an equation
if we want to isolate this X we can
divide both sides by 25 it's going to
cancel it out here so what we did is x
equals whatever this is and if we divide
up this fraction we get 200 so what that
means is x equals 200 so if we
substitute that in right there that
means we have 200 parts of the 10
milliliter Cubs boots and and 200 of the
15 milliliter dispensing cups and so
that's a couple of ways to do this
I recommend the on a test to use the
first method which is just like gum
trial-and-error deductive reasoning so
let's go back and take a look at the
question and we know that a is the
answer